---
title: "Gust: Imperative."
excerpt: "Each pod would eventually make its way out of the city and — James' line of thought stopped on cue. The pod dropped steeply, and the hum of the train became deafening as it plunged deep below the earth’s surface."
date: "10-06-23"
series: gust
order: 2
author: tyner
---

### James I

> *"Each pod would eventually make its way out of the city and — James' line of thought stopped on cue. The pod dropped steeply, and the hum of the train became deafening as it plunged deep below the earth’s surface."*

Though he had taken the necessary precautions to ensure that his superiors at the ACRON would think otherwise, he felt almost giddy. Sat in the middle of one of the city's private transport pods, James appeared calm and collected. He had always known to represent himself well, but since his employment with the ACRON, his demeanor had become as stable and steady as even the most disciplined among them. On the inside, he was an unusual flurry of knots and tangles, and his mind ran without end -- despite his managing to appear otherwise. His body ached from swells of adrenaline and tides of perspiration that threatened his mental clarity -- and underarms, respectively. Most of all, though, he was happy -- a scarce resource in Aramnal. His joy had not surfaced until after this morning's conversation. Despite having heard reliable whispers for weeks, James had delayed his excitement until he was on the magnet train and thus away from his council's directorship -- at least for the duration of his assignment. This will be the longest period he has been out of touch with the organization in the almost six years they have employed him. As cryptic as his instruction had been, James knew well enough that he was allowed very little insight into the motivation behind his hiatus from his regular post. Being a simple pawn in play had never come naturally to James, but leaving a breadth of room for the unknown always had. He did not take casually the gravity of his assignment, but he cleared his mind to prevent its potential ramblings from souring his otherwise delightful mood. 

"I serve to spectate, and not speculate," James dutifully reminded himself. He felt his way over the words with his palate but not his mouth or vocal cords. Silent speech had been something his directorship suggested he use while in the outer city, and this mantra in particular had been a recent favorite among those in his council. Its words felt more rehearsed than appreciated, but then that was his reason for reminding himself of them. 

"A smile is only as strong as the muscle that gives it shape," James spoke silently and smiled to himself. His face maintained its complete neutrality.

Ground transport in the city had been privatized a couple of decades ago. It had ceased to be the luxurious affair it had been in past generations and become a necessary way of life for many professionals. Rezoning of much of the city had followed shortly after the pods were privatized. Many of the more common folk of Inner Aramnal had found the ability to live in one place and work in another for the first time. The pod's patrons had since become an odd mix of people from rather varied walks of life. The pod where James would spend the next few hours brought with it at least a dozen others, most of whom completely ignored everyone else. This also served as James’ strategy, though it seemed it was not at the forefront of everyone's mind. One man, in particular, seemed hell-bent on eye-balling each of the pod’s female patrons in turn. Another was sound asleep, though the magnet train hummed around 60 or so decibels, and a third seemed to be very drunk. The men and women of Aramnal were as varied in build and temperament as the dunes that surrounded the city, and outliers of each group would be sure to make themselves known as separate from the rest of the crowd. The cost of being unaware of his environment could be his life, and this was not something lost on James. People he could read, but sands lie about their intentions far more readily than any man could. Where he was going, the dunes could either keep your life or take it from you, and identifying the difference could be nearly impossible. 

It had started to feel like his journey was taking longer than he had been told it would in his briefing. Wondering at the time of day, James looked up on reflex, only to see no sun above him. The lack of windows on transport pods was by design. James' pod specifically was heading to Outer Aramnal, but all of the pods were manufactured the same. Each pod would eventually make its way out of the city and — James' line of thought stopped on cue. The pod dropped steeply, and the hum of the train became deafening as it plunged deep below the earth’s surface. The man who was sleeping awoke at the rise in volume. He did not seem startled, but refreshed somehow, as though a morning nap had been all that he needed before his day's labor. 

Here he was -- a happy man on a magnet train -- hurling toward Outer Aramnal at two-hundred-twenty-some miles an hour, and without so much as a hint of emotion showing through on his face. As if by some act of divine interference, James' external reflection managed to throw him off. In an almost unheard-of lapse of control, a grin worked its way past his facade and planted itself awkwardly on his person. It would have been an odd sight to behold -- a child's grin on an otherwise stoic man. With the train's commotion serving as a sufficient distraction, no one managed to notice.

---

*As part of a serialized novella entitled: "Gust".*
